Take your Bibles and turn to the Book of Mark, chapter number eight, the Book of Mark, chapter number eight.
And it is a privilege for me as the children's pastor to be in the big service.
And I'm excited to be able to spend some time with you tonight.
And I wrote down a few things in case you're not familiar with children's ministry, maybe some things that you don't know if you're not in children's ministry.
So just a couple, just a little bit of a training time for you before we get into the message tonight.
Number one,
Anything can happen when you close your eyes to pray.
Number two, the choir is the best hideout for AWOL nursery workers.
You know who you are.
Number three, prayer requests reveal a lot about parents.
You'd be surprised how much I know about all of you out there.
Number four, grand pianos are not as durable as you think.
Next, vomit comes in all color, shapes and sizes.
Brother E.J.
has a great sense of humor.
There is a doggy heaven, and there is a heaven for cats and lizards and gerbils.
You might not know that, but it's in the Greek.
Animal crackers can be squeezed out of the nose.
Girls are superior to boys.
If you ever doubt that, just step into a class every once in a while.
Everyone runs from you in the church lobby for fear you're going to recruit them.
And lastly, to plan your class, you first ask yourself, how long will the big service go?
So I don't mean to take a lot of your time tonight, but I am excited to be able to share this message with you from Mark chapter number eight, and we're gonna read the first 10 verses and then get right into the message tonight.
Verse number one, the Bible says, in those days, the multitude being very great and having nothing to eat, Jesus called his disciples unto him and saith unto them, I have compassion on the multitude because they have now been with me three days and have nothing to eat.
And if I send them away fasting to their own houses, they will faint by the way for diversity of them came from far.
And his disciples answered him, from whence can a man satisfy these men with bread here in the wilderness?
And he asked them, how many loaves have ye, and they said seven.
And he commanded the people to sit down on the ground, and he took the seven loaves and gave thanks and break, and set before, or gave to his disciples, to set before them, and they did set them before the people.
And they had a few small fishes, and he blessed and commanded to set them also before them, so they did eat, and were filled, and they took up of the broken meat that was left seven baskets.
And they that had eaten were about 4,000, and he sent them
Oh wait, let us pray.
Dealer, thank you so much for your word and thank you for how applicable it is to us today.
And Lord, do we thank you for the gift that you have given to all of us a brand new year to serve you?
And would I pray that you would please help us to make the most out of this new year, this new decade that you have given to us?
And would I pray tonight that you would help us to learn some very important truths to be able to start this new year off right?
What I pray that you would use me and speak through me tonight, and Jesus' name, amen.
Most of us have experienced the strange phenomenon called deja vu.
Now, the most common form of deja vu is whenever you're in a situation or you're in some type of a circumstance that your brain tricks you and makes you think that you have already been in that situation or that you had already seen that person or heard that thing happen and there's different forms of this deja vu but that's probably the most common form that many of us are familiar with.
Now, we're all family here tonight so let's take a little vote who has experienced that form of deja vu
at least once in your life.
Let me see your hands.
All right, very good.
Put your hands down.
Who has never experienced this phenomenon before in your life?
Let me see your hands.
All right, just a few of you.
All right, put your hands down.
Now, this phenomenon is very mysterious to scientists.
And in 2016, scientists had a study on the brain that suggests the reason why we experienced deja vu in our lives.
And the study was very interesting because it did not have anything to do with a false memory, as we may think.
It's actually the moment where your brain is recognizing and solving some
conflict resolution and decision making in your head.
For instance, it is trying to help your brain to recreate some memories that are actually true.
And the study really is interesting because it says that those people who experience deja vu, it's very common, and it's basically says that you're normal.
Okay, you're normal person if you experience deja vu.
If you don't experience deja vu,
Scientists say that you were either extremely smart or the opposite, okay?
Now don't you love how specifically scientists are, okay?
So those people who just raised their hand, just a few of them who have never experienced that, congratulations, you are smarter than all of us, the rest of us in this room.
Now in this passage, we see the disciples and we find them in a circumstance that just happened to them a few months before.
We find them in a deja vu circumstance here.
You see, we're all very familiar with the feeding of the 5,000.
And if you're a Sunday school teacher, you probably taught that story to kids.
And you talked about the lad who brought the five loaves and the two fishes to Jesus.
And Jesus multiplied that bread and that fish.
And the 5,000 men and their families were fed on that specific day.
Now, in the exact same year that that event happened.
scholars would estimate that this is just a few months after the feeding of the 5,000.
We read this story here in Mark chapter number eight, and we read this statement by the disciples.
It's baffling to me, verse number four, from whence can a man satisfy these men with bread here in the wilderness?
Now they had just seen Jesus multiply bread and fish for 5,000 men and their families just a few months before.
So did the disciples forget what Jesus has done?
Why are they asking Jesus here in this exact same circumstance?
This story is so similar to the one that just happened a few months ago.
And yet they come to Jesus again and they ask Him, how are we gonna feed all these people?
How are we going to be able to take care of all these people here in the wilderness?
Well, how could the disciples forget what Jesus did a few months ago, or maybe the disciples did not really forget?
And very quickly this evening, let's look at three reasons why the disciples had the same lack of faith that they did just a few months before.
The first reason I see that the disciples ask this question is they were in a different place.
They were in a different place.
The feeding of the 5,000 is the only miracle in Jesus' ministry that's described in all four of the Gospels.
And so we have a lot of reference points for this miracle.
In Luke chapter nine, verse number 10 describes the feeding of the 5,000.
The Bible says, and the apostles, when they returned, told them all that they had done, and he took them and went aside privately into a desert place belonging to the city of what's the next word?
Bethsaida, Bethsaida.
So in the feeding of the 5,000, they were at Bethsaida.
Let's look at where they are now.
Feeding of the 4,000, Mark chapter number seven, just a few verses before passage here in verse 31.
And again, departing from the coast of Tyre inside, and he came into the sea of Galilee through the midst of the coast of Decapolis.
Decapolis.
So for the feeding of the 5,000, they were in Bethsaida.
For the feeding of the 4,000, they were into capitalists.
Now, why is this significant?
Well, they were in a very, very different place than they were before.
Let me list off all the miracles that took place in this Galilee region of Bethsaida and Capernaum and some of these areas where Jesus had done ministry.
Before this time, Jesus had done over 12 miracles in this area, including the feeding of the 5,000.
He had turned water into wine.
the nobleman's son, miracle of catching fishes, healing a demon-possessed man, healing Peter's mother-in-law, healing the man of palsy, healing of a leper, healing the man with a withered hand, healing Jerry's daughter, healing the woman with the issue of blood, healing two blind men, and the feeding of the 5,000 all took place in Galilee before this time.
This was the place where God was working in tremendous ways.
Now, if we contrast that to Decapolis, Decapolis is really known for one major miracle.
Do you remember the miracle?
It's whenever Jesus cast out the demons into the pigs, okay?
That was really the one thing that Decapolis was known for before this time, and he had healed many sick in a couple verses before this passage, and he had healed a deaf man, but it wasn't a place where the disciples knew that Jesus had worked before.
So in Galilee, Jesus did all these miracles in Decapolis, we're in a very different place.
We're in a very, very different place physically and in the disciples' minds spiritually.
But we must remember Jesus' promise.
He tells us in Matthew chapter 28 and verse number 20, at the end of the Great Commission, he says, and lo, I am with you all way and even unto the end of the world, amen.
Even when we are in a different place, we serve the same God.
Now, when I was a child, I struggled with a lot of phobias and a lot of fear.
So I'm just gonna pretend I'm lying on the psychiatrist couch tonight.
I'm just gonna tell you a few things about my childhood.
The first fear I remember, I was probably about two years old, and I remember it happened in a church service.
And at my church, when I was a kid, they would dim the lights this moment, and a spotlight would shine right up on the front of the platform.
And there was this hole in the platform and the pastor would come out dressed in this gown.
And he would take this poor defenseless person and just plunge them down into the water and pull them back up.
Now, as a child, I had no idea what was going on and my poor mother
Baptism service after baptism service would have to take me out of the auditorium screaming at the top of my lungs.
I thought the pastor was killing this poor person.
That was my first fear that I remember, but I continue.
Got a little bit older, a little bit more mature.
And I remember as a child, we were in the car just driving down the road and enjoying Patch the Pirate on the CD player or the cassette player.
And we were driving through and we drove through this dark, dark tunnel.
And it was almost like this monster had just swallowed the car because there were all of these bright colored brushes that were going against the car.
And it was almost like the monster was spitting out all the saliva onto the windshield.
And I just couldn't handle it.
And if you think me screaming in a baptism service is bad, me screaming in a small little minivan is even worse.
And I would scream at the top of my lungs.
And I remember as a little kid, my mom standing outside of the car washes.
Every time we went into a car wash, they would have to date me out.
And we would stand outside.
And my dad would have to take the car through, just to spare their eardrums.
Well, I got a little bit more mature after that.
It was time we lived in Florida, and it was time for me to take swimming lessons.
Swimming lessons.
And we went to this public pool where this lady gave swimming lessons.
And her, I believe it was her father, gave a lot of swimming lessons to a lot of the movie stars who filmed down in Florida for films like The Creature of the Black Lagoon and all of these old movies back then.
And her dad trained all these movie stars on how to swim.
So she was running all of this program.
And let's just say,
that she was not as fit as she used to be.
Okay, let's just draw the line there.
And I remember as as probably first or second grade boy, I had my bubble, you know, we all have our bubble and this lady did not understand that.
And to try to teach me how to swim, I mean, she broke that bubble all the time.
And to make it even worse,
She humiliated me by putting me up on this diving board and making me dive into the water and guess who was at the bottom of the diving board?
This very scary woman.
And my dad would have to bribe me every swimming lesson with candy that I wasn't allowed to have so that I would go to the swimming lesson and conquer my fear.
Now, all of those fears seem absolutely ridiculous, okay?
I mean, I don't think there's anyone in this room who has a fear of car washes or has a fear of swimming lessons, but I wonder that whenever God looks down at some of the fears that we have as adults, some of those fears that we take very, very seriously, those fears that we live with day in and day out, I wonder if our heavenly Father looks down from heaven and looks at those fears just like we would look at being afraid of a car wash.
It's ridiculous.
God's taking care of us.
And though we're in a different place, we serve the same God.
The disciples didn't realize that, and it's an important lesson for all of us to learn whether we're a child or whether we're adults.
Psalm 56 verse number three is a verse that I like to teach the kids whenever they struggle with fear, what time I am afraid
I will trust in thee.
Verse number four continues.
In God, I will praise His word.
In God, I have put my trust.
I will not fear what flesh can do unto me.
Let that be our prayer whenever we are in a different place, whether that's physically, spiritually, emotionally, that God is going to be there and provide for us.
Second reason I see very quickly tonight, not only were they in a different place, but secondly, there were different people, different people.
Now the feeding of the 5,000, John chapter six verse number 30 tells us, they said, therefore into him, what signs show us thou then that we may see and believe thee and what does thou work?
Our fathers did he man in the desert as it is written, he gave them bread from heaven to eat.
So this was a primarily Jewish crowd
In the feeding of the 5,000, and even geographically, looking at Beth St. Ian Galilee, this was a Jewish crowd for the feeding of the 5,000.
But look at the feeding of the 4,000.
Matthew chapter 4 verse 13 tells us, and leaving Nazareth, he came and dwelt in Capernaum, which is upon the sea coast, and the borders of Zebulon and Neftolem, that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by Isaiah's the prophet, saying,
The land of Zebelon and the land of Nefdelon, by the way of the sea beyond Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles.
So the first instance was feeding of the 5,000, was all Jewish people, mostly.
It's safe to say that for the feeding of the 4,000, the crowd is filled with Gentiles.
It's the Galilee of the Gentiles.
And the Jews had a real problem with this.
and the disciples no doubt looked at that crowd of Gentiles and said, I mean, Jesus fed the Jews, but he's not going to feed these people.
Jesus fed God's chosen people.
He took care of us a couple of months ago, but now we're not only in a different place, but we're with different people.
We're with people who don't deserve the blessing of God.
And even as you read through the book of Acts, this was a huge issue for the Jews to comprehend that God had opened up salvation for the Gentile people.
John chapter seven verse number 35, then said that Jews among themselves, whether will he go that we shall not find him, will he go into the dispersed among the Gentiles and teach the Gentiles?
What manner of saying is this that he said, he shall seek me and shall not find me and where I am, thither ye cannot come?
A couple years ago, we drove down to the LA Grove and we went to the Barnes and Noble down there in the LA Grove in Beverly Hills and we went for one specific reason.
I love old movies and old TV shows and I wanted to go down there and meet a person.
His name was Dick Van Dyck and he was down there signing his new book down there at the Barnes & Nobles and so we went down there and stood in line for quite a long time.
We weren't allowed to take a picture with him.
This is the best picture I got of him.
But he was sitting there assigning all these books and kind of whistling to himself.
You can see that in the picture kind of singing to himself.
He's in his 90s and he is going strong.
Well, it was a great experience to be able to meet him and always enjoyed Mary Poppins and some of those old things that he was in.
And so we drove home and we had to buy his book to be able to get his autograph and be able to meet him.
And so on the way home, driving up the 14, my wife opened up the book and started reading some of it.
And one of the stories that really caught my attention was his biography at the beginning of his life.
He talked about how that when he was a teenager, he grew up as a very faithful Christian.
His parents were, both his parents were very faithful in church.
And as he got a little older, he had opportunities to speak in the church and to preach.
And he had opportunities to lead the singing.
And he was basically the unofficial music director of this church.
He would lead the congregation in singing.
He would lead the choir.
He had opportunities to teach Sunday school.
And he was seriously considering a call to the ministry until one day.
One day as the music director, he heard about a choir that was an African-American choir.
And he heard that they had beautiful music, and he came to the pastor of the church, and he said, pastor, could we have this choir in to the church to sing?
Well, being in the South, this pastor refused to have an African-American choir sing in the church.
And as you read through Dick Van Dyke's biography, he says this statement.
He says, from that point onward, I never stepped foot
in a service, in a church, again.
And as I read that story, it grieved my heart just to think of the potential that this man could have had for the gospel of Christ, but not only that, though I don't agree with his decision-making, I don't agree that Mr. Van Dyke left the faith because of the sin of one man.
I do believe that it's a powerful illustration for us to love everyone,
who Christ died for.
You see Psalm 86 verse number nine is very clear.
All the nations.
You have made shall come and worship before you, O Lord, and shall glorify your name.
Psalm 22, 27, all the ends of the world shall remember and turn into the Lord, and all the kindreds of the nations shall worship before thee.
Psalm 66, 4, all the earth shall worship thee and shall sing unto thee.
They shall sing to thy name, Silla.
Now, in contrast, I love watching our choir sing here at Lancaster Baptist Church.
I believe that it's just a taste of what heaven is going to be like.
I love watching a choir full of people of all different backgrounds, all different cultures, all different nationalities, singing praises to the Lord because they have been redeemed.
Jesus died for every language, every color, every culture, every nationality, every background, every rank, every class, and every person who has ever lived.
And let us not be guilty of shunning a person because they are different.
than us.
Let us not be guilty if someone walks through the auditorium doors and maybe looks a little different than what we're used to.
Let us not be guilty of shunning them.
Let us make sure that we're showing the love of Christ to them.
Revelation chapter 5
Verse number nine tells us, and they sung a new song saying, thou art worthy to take the book and to open the seals thereof, for thou was slain and has redeemed us to God by thy blood out of every kindred and tongue and people and nation.
Revelation chapter seven, verse number nine, and verse number 10, after this I beheld in low a great multitude which no man can number of all nations and kindreds and people and tongues stood before the throne and before the lamb clowed with white robes and palms in their hands and cried with a loud voice saying,
to our God which should have upon the throne and unto the Lamb."
So the first reason I sincerely believe that the disciples forgot the feeding of the 5,000 where they were in a different place.
They were filled with fear.
It was a different place they were not familiar with.
Secondly, they were among different people.
They really did not believe that someone who did not look like them and act like them and someone from a different nationality could
could accept Christ as their Savior very sadly.
But thirdly, and we'll be done tonight, it was also a different period of time, a different period of time.
The feeding of the 5,000, Matthew 14, verse number 14 tells us, and Jesus went forth and saw a great multitude and was moved with compassion toward them, and he healed their sick.
And when it was evening, his disciples came to him saying, this is a desert place, and the time is now passed, and the multitude away, that they may go into the villages and buy themselves victual.
So for the feeding of the 5,000, they had waited a day.
to be able to see God work.
They had waited for morning until evening to be able to see this amazing miracle.
Luke chapter nine, verse number 12, tells us of this feeding of the 5,000 again.
And when the day began to wear away, then came the 12 and said unto him, send the multitude away.
So we see in Matthew chapter 14 and Luke chapter nine that this event happened at the end of one day.
Now look at the feeding of the 4,000.
Matthew chapter 15 verse number 32, then Jesus called his disciples unto him and said, I have compassion on the multitude because they continue with me now.
How many days?
Three days and have nothing to eat.
And I will not send them away a fasting less they faint in the way.
Can you picture in your mind the disciples?
Not only are they in a different place with different people, but now they've been waiting for three days
to eat.
Now back a couple months before it only took Jesus one day to do it.
It was one day and they had food.
But now it's three days triple the amount of time they have been waiting for Jesus to do a miracle and he hasn't done it yet.
And the disciples come to Jesus and just assuming, I guess if he didn't do it in one day like the last time,
How are we gonna feed all these people in the wilderness?
You see, many times God does not answer our prayers according to our timetable, but according to His.
And we can rest in the fact that God knows more than us.
I think we can all agree to that.
And God's plan is much greater than our plan could ever be, so we must trust His time.
Psalm 27, 14, wait on the Lord, be of good courage and he shall strengthen thy heart, wait I say on the Lord.
Take your Bibles and turn to second Kings chapter number 18 very quickly.
Second Kings chapter number 18.
Now to understand this illustration here from the word of God, we gotta get into a little bit of hermeneutics, okay?
So strap in your seat belts, it's not too bad, okay?
A little bit of hermeneutics as we study the Bible, we have to understand that Hebrew narratives
in the Bible, don't always follow a chronological point of view.
Now, 21st century Christianity, in America, whenever we tell a story, we want a chronological.
But even if you read a book or watch a movie or some type of a story, some writers will change that up and will give a different series of events and change up the
the chronology there.
For example, Genesis chapter one and chapter number two.
We have the creation of the world, beginning of chapter number two, the seventh day, and then the writer goes back and talks about the sixth day again.
And it's not chronological, but there's a reason for it.
And many times the reason is because it's a topical reason, because when the ancient Hebrew writers wrote a narrative, they would often group stories by the topics.
We could look at Second Kings, the first couple chapters
of Second Kings, the ministry of Elisha is another example.
Probably one of the most interesting examples is even as he read through the gospels, Luke who wrote to a primarily Gentile audience, he gave a very, very specific chronology of his events.
You read over Matthew, he's everywhere.
Okay, if you look at a harmony of the gospels, Luke is really, really straightforward chronological.
Matthew's stories are everywhere chronologically.
What?
It wasn't because he was a bad writer, humanly speaking.
It was because he was writing to a Jewish audience, and it was because he was grouping these stories by topic.
Well, if we go to second King chapter number 18, we read the story of King Hezekiah.
King Hezekiah.
Now many of us would be familiar with his story.
It starts in chapter number 18, verse number one with a great revival as he comes through the throne.
And then later on in the chapter, the writer describes the Assyrian attack on the northern kingdom of Israel, verse number nine through 12.
And then describes the first Assyrian attack on Judah in which Hezekiah literally peels the gold off of the furniture in the temple and sends it to Assyria as to try to appease them.
And that kind of appeases them for a little bit, but then they come back, 2nd Assyrian attacks, 2nd Kings 18, verses 17, and this goes all the way to the end of chapter number 19.
This is a little bit of another deja vu for King Hezekiah.
There are the Assyrians again, and Hezekiah has no more money to give them, and he seeks God for deliverance.
Well, we know the story where the angel of the Lord comes and delivers the children of Judah out of the hands of Sinacrib.
Second King, chapter 20 now, we have a description of King Hezekiah being sick.
And King Hezekiah calls upon Isaiah and begs God for more time to live, and Isaiah tells him he has 15 more years to live, okay?
So that's the topical version of it.
If you notice the topical, the writers all focused on Assyria for those two chapters, and then he turns through the sickness of Hezekiah, a more personal attack.
If you do the math, and you've got to put your thinking caps on for this one for a second, okay?
We know the Bible is very clear that Hezekiah reigned for 29 years, okay?
He reigned for this amount of time, 29 years.
Let's subtract the extra 15 years that Hezekiah had.
What is that?
14, okay?
14.
Years, so in the 14th year of Hezekiah's reign, Hezekiah was sick.
Second Kings chapter 18 verse number 13 is very specific on when Sennacherib was knocking on the door of Jerusalem.
If you look very closely, it says in the 14th year of Hezekiah and his reign.
So this tells us that not only in this trial that Hezekiah was going through,
famous messages preached on the Assyrian attack and the deliverance from the wicked people of Assyria.
Not only was he struggling politically, his country was about to fall, but not only was that happening, this same story describing Hezekiah's sickness.
He is on his deathbed at the same exact time.
Not only that, let's do a little more math.
His son, King has, or Manasseh, begins to reign when he is 12 years old.
So Hezekiah dies, Manasseh takes the throne, he is 12 years old when he takes the throne.
How many years did Hezekiah ask for?
15 years.
So that means that at the same time when Sennacherib was about to destroy Jerusalem, Hezekiah is on his deathbed and he doesn't have an heir.
He doesn't have a son.
He doesn't have someone to carry on the lineage of David.
That shows us a very real picture into his life.
And in the middle of all of this, Isaiah writes in Isaiah chapter 40 verse 30, even the youths shall faint and be weary and the young men shall utterly fall.
But they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength, they shall mount up with wings as eagles, they shall run and not be weary, and they shall walk and not faint."
What an amazing promise to King Hezekiah who politically, personally, his family, his finances, everything was hopeless, all at the same time when it rains at pours.
But he hoped in the promise from Isaiah that they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength.
You see, there's no age limit to that promise.
Anyone who waits upon the Lord, whether it's one day or three days or a whole lot longer than that, is going to see God work.
April 15th, 2010, scientists published research explaining the old phrase, good things come to those who wait.
They found a circuit in your brain which tells the human mind to delay seeking immediate satisfaction whenever they can picture something in the future.
In their quote, they say our results reveal that vividly imagining the future reduces impulsive choice.
So very quickly as we're about done, let's turn over to Revelation chapter 21.
And let's look at our future.
You see, it's so easy in the middle of this busy, crazy, stressful life to lose track of the future.
Revelation chapter 21 and verse number one, John writes, and I saw a new heaven and a new earth.
For the first heaven and the first earth were passed away, and there was no more sea.
And I, John, saw the holy city, knew Jerusalem coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband, verse number three.
And I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them, and be their God, and God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes, and there shall be no more death, and neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be
be any more pain for the former things are passed away.
And he that sat upon the throne said, behold, I make all things new.
And he sent it to me right for these words are faithful and true.
And he sent it to me it is done.
I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end.
I will give it to him that is a thirst of the fountain of the water of life freely.
He that overcometh shall inherit all things.
And I will be his God, and he shall be my son.
What an amazing future that all of us have in store.
If we've trusted Christ as our saved
If we put our faith in Him for our salvation, though it may be hard now, and though we may not understand the period of time that we have to wait to see God work, we can rest in the fact that we have an amazing future where God is going to wipe all tears from our eyes, and when God is going to do amazing things in our lives.
All the childhood fears that I mentioned a few moments ago, there was one thing that was similar out of all of them, other than water.
I think that might be something I struggle with.
But there was another similarity between all three of those fears that I struggled with when I was a child.
And that was whether it was a baptism or whether it was a car wash or whether it was a swimming lesson.
For all of those times that I had fear in my heart,
My dad was always there.
And if I, as a small toddler, small preschooler, forgot that my dad was there.
My dad could take care of this, but because I was so focused on myself being in a different place with different people waiting for a different period of time, I missed it.
I didn't realize that God was with me.
Isaiah 41-10, fear thou not, for I am with thee.
Be thou not dismayed, for I am thy God, I will strengthen thee, yea, I will help thee, yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness."
Acts 18-9, God tells Paul in a vision at night, be not afraid, but speak and hold not thy peace, for I am with thee.
We just finished celebrating Christmas, Matthew 1-23.
You shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is God with us.
The question is, that's great that God was with Isaiah, and God was with Paul, and God was with Mary, but how do we know that God's with us?
Well, the answer is very simple when we're with Him.
You see, God is not a genie that's just gonna grant our every wish, but if we stay close to God, He's not going anywhere.
Psalm 73, 23, nevertheless, I am continually with thee that has holed in me by my right hand.
So when we are in a different place or with different people or waiting for a different period of time like the disciples did, let's remember who we are with.